================================
django-contact 0.4 release notes
================================

September 17, 2009

Backwards-incompatible changes
==============================

This application follows `Django`_'s policy of API stability. This means that,
in general, code you develop against previous versions of this project should
continue to work against newer releases with any changes necessary. However,
backwards-incompatible changes are sometimes introduced as a decisn decision or
to resolve bugs. This release introduces such changes.


Changes to directory and template names
---------------------------------------

The application has been renamed from django-contact-form to django-contact,
and therefore the code for setting up the application has changed. If you are
using a previous version of django-contact, do the following to make it
compatible with this release:

    * Change ``contact_form`` in your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` setting to
      ``contact``.

    * In your root URLConf, change the following URL pattern from::

        (r'^contact/', include('contact_form.urls'),

      To this::

        (r'^contact/', include('contact.urls'),

    * Rename the ``templates/contact_form/`` directory to
      ``templates/contact/``. And rename the following four templates in that
      directory to:

        ``contact_form_subject.txt`` -- ``subject.txt``
        ``contact_form_.txt`` -- ``body.txt``
        ``contact_form.html`` -- ``contact.html``
        ``contact_form_sent.html`` -- ``sent.html``

The directory ``contact_form`` was renamed to ``contact`` to reflect the
functionality this application provides. This application provides a way for
site visitors to *contact* managers of a website. Future releases of the
application will introduce more versatility and customization of contacting
managers. This application will provide more than just a simple form, and the
name ``contact_form`` does not accurately describe the nature of this
application.

The four templates' names were reduced because the current naming scheme was
redundant. The ``templates/contact_form/`` directory already described the
namespace of the templates; prefixing each template with ``contact_form`` was
unnecessary.


New features
============

The new features of django-contact 0.4 are:


Custom Headers
--------------

The application now uses the ``EmailMessage`` and ``SMTPConnection`` classes to
send emails. This allows some additional functionality that was no available in
the ``send_mail()`` method, such as the ability to add custom headers.

See the `forms documentation`_ to see how to use custom headers.

.. _forms documentation: ../forms.html


Database Independency
---------------------

Previously, the ``django.contrib.sites`` framework had to be installed for this
application to function. This meant that developer's project had to have a
database backend, even though this application does not require one. The
application will now work whether the sites framework is installed or not.


Default User Attribute
----------------------

If a user is authenticated, the user's first name, last name and email from
``django.contrib.auth.models.User`` is set as the values of the  sender and
email fields. The developer is able to toggle this functionality on or off.

See the `forms documentation`_ to see how to use default user.


i18n Support
------------

The following languages are now supported:

    * French
    * German
    * Japanese
    * Norwegian
    * Swedish


.. _Django: http://www.djangoproject.com
